well howdy there internet people it's
boullion so today we are going to be
talking about the effectiveness of law
enforcement we're gonna do that because
apparently some people don't know what
the word effective means effective means
it is producing the desired result or
outcome it's pretty simple definition
that's what it means it doesn't mean
status quo right now you're hearing a
whole bunch of people say if we reform
law enforcement
well we'll be taking away the tools they
need to do their job they won't be
effective anymore
the question is are they effective now
and I'm not talking about the obvious
stuff that we've been talking about all
week I'm talking about in general is law
enforcement defective now the metric
that you should use to determine this is
not conviction rate because that's
that's not fair to law enforcement to be
completely honest a lot of times law
enforcement can do their job and when I
get to turn over prosecution the ball
gets dropped so that's not a good metric
the metric you should use is case
clearance rate now what that means is a
case gets opened law enforcement
conducts their investigation
they drop charges on somebody and they
turn it over
that's a cleared case now sometimes
cases get cleared through what is called
exceptional circumstances or exceptional
means this is when like the the suspect
takes themself out before the cops get
to them or they flee the country but
they know who did it you know they have
solved the case that's the metric to use
now we're going to use the numbers from
2017 because it's a pretty good year it
shows a pretty effective year for for
law enforcement we're going to use those
numbers you can find these that the
FBI's statistics on this I'll put a link
down there ok so what about the big one
homicide
what would you imagine the clearance
rate is on this sixty one point six it's
not really high it's not incredibly
effective keep in mind this is only
factoring in cases that were opened the
person that just turns up missing
they're not involved in this they're not
factored into these numbers
realistically the the real number here
unsolved is probably about half it's
probably about 50 percent not incredibly
effective rape 34.5% not incredibly
effective especially given the fact that
we know that is the most underreported
crime in the country if you factor in
the information and the data we have on
that the true effectiveness of law
enforcement in dealing with that crime
drops to these single digits it's not
effective robbery 29.7 okay AGG assault
fifty three point three and keep in mind
that's a that normally occurs between
people who know each other really easy
to identify yeah
that's not great that is not effective I
would suggest that that's not effective
let's go to property crimes that have a
victim burglary thirteen point five keep
in mind this is also heavily
underreported when your neighbor had
their garage broken into and they didn't
call the cops because they didn't want
to spend three hours filling out
paperwork and waiting for them to show
up and knowing they weren't going to do
anything about it
that doesn't get factored at this is
only where cases were opened larceny
theft nineteen point two motor vehicle
theft thirteen point seven if this was
great school and this was your report
card
I would imagine your parents would be
pretty upset with you this is not
effective
the system as it stands is not effective
so we cannot use the effectiveness of
the current system as a reason not to
reform the reality is some of these
reforms would allow law enforcement to
spend more time dealing with stuff that
actually matters crimes with a victim I
would suggest that limiting the scope of
law enforcement would allow them to
refocus their training on perhaps basic
investigative skills rather than
learning how to play with their cool new
toys the idea that we should postpone
reform because it would hamper the
effectiveness of law enforcement is
completely blown out of the water when
you realize law enforcement is not
effective to begin with it does not
produce the desired result for outcome
we need reform we need it now just to be
clear I have not read the the
legislation that the Democrats just put
up I haven't seen it yet so this isn't
really in favor of that because it may
be completely watered down it may have
snuck stuff in I haven't looked at it
yet I'll be doing a video on it later
but what this is this is the information
you need to be able to pull out of your
hat when you encounter that argument
well we can't stop them from doing all
of these horrible things because it may
make them ineffective they're not
effective now anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good day